You guys in the last video we went ahead and finished up the age html template.
Now we're ready to convert that template into a WordPress theme.
So here we have a fresh installation of WordPress.
I haven't done anything to it at all.
All right.
So use this as our starting point.
And over here you can see I have the folder open up I just called it W.P. themes.
All right.
So first thing we need to do is inside of our W.P. content folder we're going to want to create a theme
inside of the themes folder here.
All right.
So let's say new folder and I want to call this photo genic.
OK now first single going to want to create in here is a style Dotsie SS file.
OK because this is where we need to put all of our theme data.
So if at the top we need to put this in a comment.
So we want to format it like this.
All right.
And then we need a theme name
which is going to be photogenic.
We don't want that.
And then let's do author.
You can put your own name.
OK next will be author.
You are I.
And you can put whatever you want here.
I'm just going to put edge on X dot com and white keeps you given a semi-colon.
OK.
Next thing will be description.
So for the description we'll say photo gallery theme and then will do version.
So at one point all point 0.
And that should be good.
So what I'll do now is save this.
And we should now actually see it inside of our admin area.
So it's reload and then go to parents and then themes in each template.
All we need to create an index file of course.
So let's create new file and save it as index dot ph P K and then if we go back and reload you can now
see we have photogenic.
Now I do actually have a screen shot that I want to upload.
So it's open up.
Let's see we're going to want to go to X.
Or wherever your Wordpress installation is.
And what's the word W.P. themes.
We want to go into photogenic and you want when you want to use a screen shot you want to call it screenshot
dot PNB.
OK.
So that's what I'm putting in there.
And now if we go and reload now we have a little screen shot.
OK so let's go ahead and activate this theme and then if we go to the front end and reload.
Obviously we're not going to get anything.
OK so now we can start to put this together.
So I think the first thing to do here.
One of the easiest is just to put in the style of CSX.
All right so what we'll do is open up the style sheet from each team all template and I'm going to just
copy everything and then put it right under the comment here.
And I save that in now.
OK.
So that's not still not going to do any thing because we have nothing in our index ph p.
So it's close that.
And let's go to index BGB and what we'll do is we'll copy everything that we have in our index h t m
l file
and paste that in and save it and then if we're going to reload.
OK.
So it's going to show us all this just static aged him OK.
None of this is coming from WordPress So we're going to solely just convert it from just static markup
to WordPress.
All right so let's go to the top here.
And first thing we're going to do is we need to include the correct style sheets.
So what we'll do is we're going to leave this one which is the W3 schools see the end and then right
here we're going to take out this style thought SS and we're going to put in here ph P blog info.
And in here we just want to put in a style sheet underscore you r l k if we save that and then go and
reload.
Now that style sheets being included.
OK.
We're not seeing the images because there's that the path is wrong but we'll get to that later.
All right so that's the head area.
Now another thing we want to put in here is the W.P. head function and that's going to put any any head
to content that we need and like say in extra stylesheet for a WordPress plugin or something like that
.
So let's say P P and then W.P. underscore head.
And that should take care of it and then we also want the the character set so we can go right here
and say Metta
char set and we're going to set that to each P..
We're going to use blog in full again and then inside here we just want to put char set.
All right.
And that looks good.
Now for the H-1 here I'm actually going to make this dynamic.
So we want to say p p
log info
and we want to use name.
All right so let's save that and see what that gives us.
All right so let's see what we messed up here.
I said this
you know oh what's this.
Yeah that needs to have an ending.
Great advance sign.
There we go.
OK so WordPress themes and that's going to give us whatever the site name is which we can change inside
the admin area and don't worry about this.
This spacing up here we'll get to that after.
OK.
So let's see what else do we need to do here for the body.
We actually want to include the body class function here.
So we're going to say ph the body understood for class
.
Now this stuff I'm going to leave for now the main content for the footer.
What I want to do is grab this whatever the name of the blog and put that down here just like that.
OK.
Now we're going to want to do is split this up into a header and footer.
So what we do is inside our folder here let's create a new file called Hetter dog ph P and also for
dog p p k and then let's figure out what we need to put in the head.
So we want from the very top
and I actually do want to include this side here in the header files so we want to go down to.
I would say this row.
OK.
Because from here down we want that to be in the index.
So let's grab all this or cut that out put it inside the head or file save it k and then just bring
this up and then for the footer Let's figure that out.
So we're going to want this to be the last div in the index so everything under that saw cut that.
Put that in for save it and then inside index let's just bring all this over that.
OK.
So if we reload now you can see that all we're getting is the index file we need to include the header
and footer in this file.
So let's do that.
And that's extremely easy.
All you need to do is save ph.
Get better.
All right.
And then we're going to do the same thing for the footer.
So this will be good for her.
OK.
Now if we go back and reload now it's back to normal.
So let's actually change the name of the site.
So if we go to the settings general we're going to change this to photogenic.
OK so now that should change.
And there we go.
So now we have our header and footer and the next video we're going to start to look at the content
and the post because that's we want the post to be showing in the index.
OK.
So we'll get to that next.